My grandmother, Gloria, or ‘Nana’ as we kids knew her..

She was born in Milburn and had two brothers: Gene and Bart.  She grew up there in Millburn, but also lived in Italy at some point for a few years.

Her family eventually moved to Plainfield, and she settled there after meeting my grandfather, the first Edward Jinotti.  She always described it as love-at-first-sight.  He came home on furlow one day.  Her family was renting the first floor so she opened the door for him, and that was it.  She was actually dating another guy at the time and wrote him a Dear John letter to go off to marry my grandfather.

They were married for over 70 years through thick and thin.  They had one son, my father, the second Edward Jinotti.

She worked primarily as the bookkeeper for their business, but also devoted much of her life to caring for many sick people in the family: my father, her mother, her brother Gene, her husband’s mother, and probably a few more that I’m forgetting.  She even managed to take care of her husband for several years after his stroke, when she was already in her late 80s.  With all of the hardships she endured and tragedy she saw... she was a very strong person.

She also had a very strong personality.  If you made her angry, she would let you hear it.  Everything in her house had an exact spot or position that it had to be in.  The chairs always had to be put back in the same spot to leave the same divots on the rug.  The labels on the milk in the fridge always had to face the same direction.  My grandfather used to tell a story about how, when he went to take his evening pills, she would follow him to whatever sink he chose to be sure to wipe the water droplets from the sink.

But, despite all of this strength, she was also very sensitive.  If you spoke to her for more than a couple minutes about my father, she would break down into tears.

Her favorite thing in the world was probably just riding around in the car, either with her husband or her cousin, Roberta.  She was very active: lived independently and got around with her walker all the way up until three months ago.  She loved to dine out and had her favorite meals at various restaurants all around the area.  She loooved ice cream: Friendly’s, Turkey Hill, Haagen Daaz, Chocolate, Vanilla… Chocolate, Vanilla... I definitely inherited that trait.

My grandparents were opposites in several ways, but were always together on the important things.  They both taught me to be honest, to have integrity, and to show compassion.  From my grandfather I also learned about leadership, calmness, and patience.  From my grandmother I learned discipline, self-sacrifice, and not to be too patient.

It’s hard to imagine that they’re gone now.  It always seemed like they’d be around forever.  But then I realize… Through all of the things that they’ve taught me and all of the ways that they’ve touched so many of you… They will be around forever.
