My grandfather.. the 'Big Chief', as I liked to call him.. I'd like to talk about how I remember him..

First a little bit about him.. He was proud to be a World War 2 veteran, where he was an Air Force mechanic in the Pacific.  He was also very proud of his time, before the War, working for the Civilian Conservation Corps in Montana and Idaho.  He always spoke fondly of his times 'Out West'.. 

Otherwise he lived his life here in Plainfield.  He had four brothers who he loved very much: Henry, Tony, Mikey, and Walter.  He was especially proud of Walter and all of his accomplishments.  And, of course, he had his wonderful wife of 70 years, Gloria, who he loved with all his heart.

They were quite the pair: riding around together and enjoying life well into their late 80s.  They had so many good times with so many of you that are here today.  They also endured many hard times: illnesses in the family, my father's, and other difficulties.  But even through all of that he was never one to be sad or depressed.  Angry once in a while, but for the most part he was always calm and happy.. enjoying the simple things: a good story, a nice sangwich.  I think part of that was just his character, but part of it was also because he had her.

I remember how he liked to save EVERYTHING.  He never threw anything away and kept little stashes of stuff throughout the house that she wasn't allowed to touch.. I think most of the time he saved things just to give them away to people who might enjoy them.  Recently, while he was staying up at the VA, he hounded us for months about something that he wanted from the garage.  We couldn't figure it out, couldn't figure it out, but eventually figured out that it was an old VHS recording of a movie about WW2 pilots that he wanted to give to one of the aids that was into planes.

I remember after he retired he would go down to New Brunswick a few times every week: to visit his brother Walter, then after Walter's passing, to work on the cars and buildings with me.  My grandmother, having been the bookkeeper for their business, handled the finances and gave him cash to use each week.  One day after he went to stay at the VA, she was cleaning out some of his stuff and came upon his wallet.  In the wallet she found a secret stash of over $2,000 that he'd squirreled away.  She confronted him about it, and he said, 'I was saving it to buy you a diamond ring on our next anniversary!'

I remember how he loved the Yankees.  Even if they were in last place, he would watch every game.  And she might love the Yankees even more than he did.  But she's superstitious and nervous and couldn't bear to actually watch the games.  So they had this arrangement where he would watch the games and report the score to her every couple of innings.

I remember working with him down in New Brunswick.  I did all kinds of jobs and repairs that I would never know how to do.. because he would teach and instruct me.  His only rule was that we could never go to the hardware store or the auto parts store more than once.  Even if the store was only two blocks away and we were missing a critical tool, we had to improvise and use what was on hand.  At first this frustrated me, but later I realized that he did this just for the extra challenge.  He loved fixing things and solving problems.  For someone with very little formal education he had a great engineering mind.

Most of all, I remember how it felt to be part of his family when he was healthy.  He WAS the 'Big Chief'.  No matter what problems I had or mistakes I made, I knew that everything would be alright because he was there.. that he would take care of everything.  When I had my first car accident, I had my friends distract my grandmother while I went straight upstairs to tell him. Even as an adult, anytime I didn't know how to do something or fix something, I'd just ask him.. 

I really hope that I can be like him someday.

